docs/getting-started.markdown, before:

Beehive Router
===

Getting started
===

To start the project in developer mode:

   make
   ./start_dev.sh


This will start the basic router with the default options. The default
node type that gets started is the router type.

To build the project and use in in a production mode, see docs/installation.markdown.


How it works
===
There are 4 mnesia tables setup by the beehive router:

<img src="https://github.com/auser/beehive/raw/master/lib/erlang/docs/tables.png" width="300" alt="table" />

The app table stores the applications associated with Beehive.

The bee table stores the bee data, and their state.

The user table stores information about the users associated with the system.

The user_app table stores the mappings between users and their apps


## Proxy

The proxy can be hot-loaded with new routes simply with a RESTful
interface. The name (the routing key), the endpoint host and the port
of the bee need to be included. For instance:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"app_name\":\"test\", \"host\":\"google.com\", \"port\":\"80\"}" beehive.com:8080/bees/new.json

The parameters that must be included are the app_name (the routing
key), the host and the port. You can check to make sure that they were
added by calling: http://beehive.com:8080/bees.json

These can also be added at the erlang command-line by:

    bee_store:add_bee({"streaming",{127,0,0,1}, 5001}).
    % or
    bee_store:add_bee([{app_name, "streaming"}, {host, "127.0.0.1"}, {port, 5001}]).

## Apps

Adding an application can also be added via the RESTful interface. For example:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"name\":\"beehive\", \"host\":\"ec2-75-121-34-215-amazon.com\", \"port\":\"8080\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json
    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"name\":\"test\", \"host\":\"ec2-75-121-34-210-amazon.com\", \"port\":\"8081\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json

Viewing the list of supported apps:

    curl -i beehive.com:8080/apps.json

All operations can be handled in a RESTful interface.

For instance, to terminate and restart the application in the beehive, issue a request such as:

    curl -i -XPOST http://beehive.com:8080/apps/[app_name]/restart.json

## Storage nodes

To store the distributable bees, you must start a
storage backend. Beehive makes this easy again by using the start
script:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -t storage

Note, these storage backends must have git installed (currently the
only supported scm) because they will clone the url repos (off-site
for now) and squash the filesystem.

## Nodes

Beehive is a distributed system. You can add multiple nodes in the
router. The node_manager handles the node connections.

Viewing the nodes is as easy as a query as well:

    curl -i beehive.com:8080/nodes

To add a new node, as mentioned above, start a node with the seed
value from the start script:

    ./start_beehive.sh -s 'router@my-other-machine.com'

To add an existing node to a cluster, you can set the seed with:

    node_manager:set_seed(OtherNodePid).

## Users

Beehive has basic support for user accounts. The root user account
information is:

    username: root@getbeehive.com
    password: test


It is strongly recommended that you delete this user as soon as you
create your own (you must log in once with this user to create a new
user).

Certain requests require an authenticated user. To remove the
root@getbeehive.com user, we must authenticate. To authenticate, you
must first get a token. This is achieved by submitting a request, such
as:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"email\":\"root@getbeehive.com\", \"password\": \"test\"}" http://beehive.com:8080/auth.json

This will return a tuple that will look like:

    {"user":"root@getbeehive.com","token":"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19"}

Subsequent requests that require authentication should attach this
token onto the data.

Of course, it would be wise to add another admin user first. To add an
admin level user, use the level 1 and ass, such as below

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"email\":\"arilerner@mac.com\", \"password\":\"myuniquepassword\", \"level\":\"1\", \"token\":\"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19\"}" beehive.com:8080/users/new.json

So, to remove the root@getbeehive.com user, we can then issue a request like:

    curl -i -XDELETE -d"{\"email\":\"root@getbeehive.com\", \"token\":\"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19\"}" beehive.com:8080/users.json

And there you go, you have a custom authenticat-able user at your disposal.

Advanced
===

## Custom event handlers

The core functionality of Beehive is event-driven. It supports user
defined callbacks as well. To hook into the beehive architecture, you
will have to write a custom handler that exports the function:
handle_event/1. And example of this custom event handler might look
something like this:


    -module (my_callback_handler).
    -include ("/path/to/include/beehive.hrl").

    -export ([handle_event/1]).

    handle_event({bee, ready, Bee}) ->
      io:format("The bees: ~p is ready~n", [Bee#bee.id]);

    handle_event(_) -> ok.

Notice that the module name is pretty unique. It's a good idea to
stick to a unique name so as not to clash with Beehive modules.

In any case, the handler for the event will catch the {bee, ready,
Bee} event thrown when a backend has been released from a single
connection.

All the events in the source are thrown with the method:
?NOTIFY(EventTuple) and are documented throughout the source. Here is
a brief list of the callbacks available to handle:

<table><tr><th>Event</th><th>Description</th></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, used, Bee}</td><td>When a connection has been established</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, ready, Bee}</td><td>When a connection has been terminated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, cannot_connect, Bee}</td><td>When a connection could not be made to the bee</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, bee_down, Bee}</td><td>Fired when the backend is requested to be terminated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{app, updated, App}</td><td>Fired when the app has been updated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{app, request_to_start_new_bee, Name}</td><td>Fired when the app has been queried and there are not enough bees</td></tr>
</table>

Note that this will *not* alter the functionality of beehive, it can only <strong>enhance</strong> usage for the user.

Note: The documentation assumes that the router is sitting at a network accessible location. The documentation uses the CNAME "beehive.com" to illustrate.

To start a router with the custom callback module, use the -c and -a switches:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -a /path/to/custom_callback_module -c custom_callback_module

## Custom backend strategies

Backends are chosen via a strategy. There are baked in strategies that
can be used. Those are described in the file:
[src/mesh/router/backend_strategies.erl](https://github.com/auser/beehive/blob/master/lib/erlang/src/mesh/router/bee_strategies.erl).

If needed, custom strategies can be written to describe more
complicated descriptions. To do so, write a custom handler, for
instance:

    -module (custom_bee_picker).
    -include ("/path/to/include/beehive.hrl").
    -export([custom_chooser/1]).

    custom_chooser(Bees) ->
      hd(Bees).

This is clearly a dummy handler as it will choose the top of the bees,
but it illustrates how to build a bee picker. To start with this bee
picker at the top of the list:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -a /path/to/custom_callback_module -q channel_chooser

Now, any application that has the routing_param set to channel_chooser
will use the custom_chooser module.

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"token\":\"tokenofauthorizeduser\", \"name\":\"picky_app\", \"routing_param\":\"custom_chooser\", \"bee_picker\":\"custom_bee_picker\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json


DEVELOPER DATA
===

Each request goes through the following process:
<img src="http://www.websequencediagrams.com/cgi-bin/cdraw?lz=Q2xpZW50LT4AAgZSZXF1ZXN0SGFuZGxlcjogSW5pdGlhbCByABIGCgASFC0-UHJveHkAKwlTcGF3biBuZXdcbiAADgwKABsMLT5IVFRQAGgHRGVjb2RlcjogSGFuZCBvdmVyIFxuYwCBFAUAcQkAHRIAaBBSZXR1cm4gcGFyc2VkAIEpCQBnDlNlcnZlclNlbGVjdG9yOiBDaG9vc2UgYW5cbiBhdmFpbGFibGUgYmFja2VuZAoAIA4AgVgQQ29ubmVjdCBhbmQgXG5lbmdhZwAxCgBjFDogU2VuZCBpAIJGDiB0byAAgREGAIISDwCDFAYAgkgIbGlzdGVuAIIVBWZvciAAghcHZGF0YQBUGAAjFHMAgXsFADIF&s=rose" />

Glossary
===
  * Bee - A bee end point service to forward and route requests
  * App - An application with multiple bees
  * Node - A machine that is capable of hosting applications
  * Routing Node - A router node that is a part of the routing mesh

TODO
===
  * Add ets/mnesia storage to the front-end servers
  * Add bee dets file for recovery when the router dies
  * Add more than just http servers (abstract the proxying protocols)
  * Propagate the custom callback module across the mesh
  * Add token expiry to the user tokens

Commit message:

Starting to add more to the survival guide.

docs/getting-started.markdown, after:

Beehive Router
===

Getting started
===

To start the project in developer mode:

   make
   ./start_dev.sh


This will start the basic router with the default options. The default
node type that gets started is the router type. For more information
on what to do next, check out docs/survival_guide.markdown


To build the project and use in in a production mode, see docs/installation.markdown.


How it works
===
There are 4 mnesia tables setup by the beehive router:

<img src="https://github.com/auser/beehive/raw/master/lib/erlang/docs/tables.png" width="300" alt="table" />

The app table stores the applications associated with Beehive.

The bee table stores the bee data, and their state.

The user table stores information about the users associated with the system.

The user_app table stores the mappings between users and their apps


## Proxy

The proxy can be hot-loaded with new routes simply with a RESTful
interface. The name (the routing key), the endpoint host and the port
of the bee need to be included. For instance:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"app_name\":\"test\", \"host\":\"google.com\", \"port\":\"80\"}" beehive.com:8080/bees/new.json

The parameters that must be included are the app_name (the routing
key), the host and the port. You can check to make sure that they were
added by calling: http://beehive.com:8080/bees.json

These can also be added at the erlang command-line by:

    bee_store:add_bee({"streaming",{127,0,0,1}, 5001}).
    % or
    bee_store:add_bee([{app_name, "streaming"}, {host, "127.0.0.1"}, {port, 5001}]).

## Apps

Adding an application can also be added via the RESTful interface. For example:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"name\":\"beehive\", \"host\":\"ec2-75-121-34-215-amazon.com\", \"port\":\"8080\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json
    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"name\":\"test\", \"host\":\"ec2-75-121-34-210-amazon.com\", \"port\":\"8081\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json

Viewing the list of supported apps:

    curl -i beehive.com:8080/apps.json

All operations can be handled in a RESTful interface.

For instance, to terminate and restart the application in the beehive, issue a request such as:

    curl -i -XPOST http://beehive.com:8080/apps/[app_name]/restart.json

## Storage nodes

To store the distributable bees, you must start a
storage backend. Beehive makes this easy again by using the start
script:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -t storage

Note, these storage backends must have git installed (currently the
only supported scm) because they will clone the url repos (off-site
for now) and squash the filesystem.

## Nodes

Beehive is a distributed system. You can add multiple nodes in the
router. The node_manager handles the node connections.

Viewing the nodes is as easy as a query as well:

    curl -i beehive.com:8080/nodes

To add a new node, as mentioned above, start a node with the seed
value from the start script:

    ./start_beehive.sh -s 'router@my-other-machine.com'

To add an existing node to a cluster, you can set the seed with:

    node_manager:set_seed(OtherNodePid).

## Users

Beehive has basic support for user accounts. The root user account
information is:

    username: root@getbeehive.com
    password: test


It is strongly recommended that you delete this user as soon as you
create your own (you must log in once with this user to create a new
user).

Certain requests require an authenticated user. To remove the
root@getbeehive.com user, we must authenticate. To authenticate, you
must first get a token. This is achieved by submitting a request, such
as:

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"email\":\"root@getbeehive.com\", \"password\": \"test\"}" http://beehive.com:8080/auth.json

This will return a tuple that will look like:

    {"user":"root@getbeehive.com","token":"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19"}

Subsequent requests that require authentication should attach this
token onto the data.

Of course, it would be wise to add another admin user first. To add an
admin level user, use the level 1 and ass, such as below

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"email\":\"arilerner@mac.com\", \"password\":\"myuniquepassword\", \"level\":\"1\", \"token\":\"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19\"}" beehive.com:8080/users/new.json

So, to remove the root@getbeehive.com user, we can then issue a request like:

    curl -i -XDELETE -d"{\"email\":\"root@getbeehive.com\", \"token\":\"f24e53e38dfb380066ea166f1844cf19\"}" beehive.com:8080/users.json

And there you go, you have a custom authenticat-able user at your disposal.

Advanced
===

## Custom event handlers

The core functionality of Beehive is event-driven. It supports user
defined callbacks as well. To hook into the beehive architecture, you
will have to write a custom handler that exports the function:
handle_event/1. And example of this custom event handler might look
something like this:


    -module (my_callback_handler).
    -include ("/path/to/include/beehive.hrl").

    -export ([handle_event/1]).

    handle_event({bee, ready, Bee}) ->
      io:format("The bees: ~p is ready~n", [Bee#bee.id]);

    handle_event(_) -> ok.

Notice that the module name is pretty unique. It's a good idea to
stick to a unique name so as not to clash with Beehive modules.

In any case, the handler for the event will catch the {bee, ready,
Bee} event thrown when a backend has been released from a single
connection.

All the events in the source are thrown with the method:
?NOTIFY(EventTuple) and are documented throughout the source. Here is
a brief list of the callbacks available to handle:

<table><tr><th>Event</th><th>Description</th></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, used, Bee}</td><td>When a connection has been established</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, ready, Bee}</td><td>When a connection has been terminated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, cannot_connect, Bee}</td><td>When a connection could not be made to the bee</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{bee, bee_down, Bee}</td><td>Fired when the backend is requested to be terminated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{app, updated, App}</td><td>Fired when the app has been updated</td></tr>
  <tr><td>{app, request_to_start_new_bee, Name}</td><td>Fired when the app has been queried and there are not enough bees</td></tr>
</table>

Note that this will *not* alter the functionality of beehive, it can only <strong>enhance</strong> usage for the user.

Note: The documentation assumes that the router is sitting at a network accessible location. The documentation uses the CNAME "beehive.com" to illustrate.

To start a router with the custom callback module, use the -c and -a switches:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -a /path/to/custom_callback_module -c custom_callback_module

## Custom backend strategies

Backends are chosen via a strategy. There are baked in strategies that
can be used. Those are described in the file:
[src/mesh/router/backend_strategies.erl](https://github.com/auser/beehive/blob/master/lib/erlang/src/mesh/router/bee_strategies.erl).

If needed, custom strategies can be written to describe more
complicated descriptions. To do so, write a custom handler, for
instance:

    -module (custom_bee_picker).
    -include ("/path/to/include/beehive.hrl").
    -export([custom_chooser/1]).

    custom_chooser(Bees) ->
      hd(Bees).

This is clearly a dummy handler as it will choose the top of the bees,
but it illustrates how to build a bee picker. To start with this bee
picker at the top of the list:

    ./scripts/start_beehive.sh -a /path/to/custom_callback_module -q channel_chooser

Now, any application that has the routing_param set to channel_chooser
will use the custom_chooser module.

    curl -i -XPOST -d"{\"token\":\"tokenofauthorizeduser\", \"name\":\"picky_app\", \"routing_param\":\"custom_chooser\", \"bee_picker\":\"custom_bee_picker\"}" beehive.com:8080/apps/new.json


DEVELOPER DATA
===

Each request goes through the following process:
<img src="http://www.websequencediagrams.com/cgi-bin/cdraw?lz=Q2xpZW50LT4AAgZSZXF1ZXN0SGFuZGxlcjogSW5pdGlhbCByABIGCgASFC0-UHJveHkAKwlTcGF3biBuZXdcbiAADgwKABsMLT5IVFRQAGgHRGVjb2RlcjogSGFuZCBvdmVyIFxuYwCBFAUAcQkAHRIAaBBSZXR1cm4gcGFyc2VkAIEpCQBnDlNlcnZlclNlbGVjdG9yOiBDaG9vc2UgYW5cbiBhdmFpbGFibGUgYmFja2VuZAoAIA4AgVgQQ29ubmVjdCBhbmQgXG5lbmdhZwAxCgBjFDogU2VuZCBpAIJGDiB0byAAgREGAIISDwCDFAYAgkgIbGlzdGVuAIIVBWZvciAAghcHZGF0YQBUGAAjFHMAgXsFADIF&s=rose" />

Glossary
===
  * Bee - A bee end point service to forward and route requests
  * App - An application with multiple bees
  * Node - A machine that is capable of hosting applications
  * Routing Node - A router node that is a part of the routing mesh

TODO
===
  * Add ets/mnesia storage to the front-end servers
  * Add bee dets file for recovery when the router dies
  * Add more than just http servers (abstract the proxying protocols)
  * Propagate the custom callback module across the mesh
  * Add token expiry to the user tokens
