[TODO:  This document is a work in progress, and is only barely
started/outlined; I've stuffed it into my git repo mainly so jdunphy can
correct the errors I make.]

## You will need

* Erlang.  Beehive attempts to support at least 13B and later.
* Ruby.  I'm using 1.9.2, and things probably work fine with 1.8.7.
* Thin, a Ruby gem.  `gem install thin`
* Various basic things, like a C compiler and bash.  (There are a few
bashisms in the accompanying scripts for the time being.)

## Building

`make`.  The Makefile is fairly easy to read, although it consists
almost entirely of calls to rebar.

[TODO:  I can't find documentation for rebar.]

## Running the tests

`make test`.  The tests are in these two directories (relative to the
beehive repo's root):

* ./lib/erlang/apps/beehive_router/test
* ./lib/erlang/apps/beehive/test

The tests require that localhost:4999 and :8080 be available to listen on.

## Running a dev server

`./start_dev.sh`.  The relevant environment variables are:

 * BEEHIVE_HOME (default /tmp/beehive)
 * BEEHIVE_DOMAIN (default `hostname -f`)

See docs/config.markdown for more Beehive configuration info.

[TODO: Explain those.]  
That will start an instance of Beehive's
router on localhost:8080, and the Beehive REST service on
localhost:4999.  Note that, as the tests run an instance of Beehive on
the same ports, you'll want to shut down the dev server before running
the tests.

## Deploying "Hello, World!" to the dev server

By default, beehive will create an admin user:
root@getbeehive.com/test You can use this user to get started and add
a new non-admin user for app deployment.

    $ curl -d "email=root@getbeehive.com&password=test" http://localhost:4999/auth.json
    {"user":"root@getbeehive.com","token":"629152124e1c88e5ec9b39456d8331a9"}

You can then use the admin's token as authorization for creating a new user.

    $ curl -d "email=jacob@beehive.com&password=<password>&pubkey=<ssh-pubkey>&token=629152124e1c88e5ec9b39456d8331a9" http://localhost:4999/users.json
    {"user":{"email":"jacob@beehive.com"}}

    $ curl "http://localhost:4999/users/jacob@beehive.com.json"
    {"user":{"email":"jacob@beehive.com","level":2,"pubkey":"ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAABIwAAAQEAsxuj8NrLgqHmc1WymYTQNmmbu/JoaCGNuei8zk/PfXbM p77r/OPZwNPwTPaflc WTLvyRPDZReSjBWMaYmGBKx1LJNzEVyhDkHzuUoMqDPa0gR6eJQfGE9Wnm6hh0TtmSyH4P9U475MD6d0KNGOHYYZlFk/hZLftkshI1al9o9bt1nAwP87QjLS5mhiwzv78uy3Qyi1mxn58dMOmME2aowVLa791ma3hfzoNSSKElSEGPzs hvg4/plG70idt4ySlZQOECnToA6wuWh2V9FMjXJnqXhGm49UxwIW0 CDw4y6F4kYcKD2e VwFtD0pHT0F0ZkhfcdIDLmdl8iPGMfw== jdunphy@jdunphy-dev"}}

At this point, you should reauthorize as your new user, using another
POST to /auth.json.




## Managing Bees

## The admin interface

## REST API summary

## Troubleshooting
[TODO:  I'll be filling this in as I encounter/fix problems with my own
setup.]

## See also
[TODO:  The remaining docs are not written yet.]
